Add NDK project page (#667)
OpenSats/website: data/projects/ndk.mdx

tags: ['Nostr', 'TypeScript', 'Library', 'SDK']
showcase: true
fund: nostr
announcementLink: '/blog/nostr-grants-july-2023#ndk'
---

NDK (Nostr Development Kit) is a TypeScript toolkit for building [nostr](/topics/nostr) applications, maintained by [PabloF7z][lts]. It is structured as a monorepo of small packages so that client developers can pull in only the parts they need: a core library for relay management and event handling, framework-specific bindings for [Svelte 5](https://svelte.dev/) and [React](https://react.dev/), a [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/) integration for mobile, and standalone packages for higher-level features.

> NDK is a nostr development kit that makes the experience of building nostr-related applications, whether they are relays, clients, or anything in between, better, more reliable, and overall more enjoyable to work with than existing solutions. The core goal of NDK is to improve the decentralization of nostr via intelligent conventions and data discovery features without depending on any one central point of coordination.
>
> <cite>—[pablof7z](https://github.com/nostr-dev-kit/ndk)</cite>

> The advanced packages cover Web of Trust filtering, [NIP-77](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/77.md) negentropy set reconciliation, multi-account session management, [NIP-17](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/17.md) gift-wrapped DMs, [NIP-60](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/60.md) cashu wallet integration with [NWC](/topics/nostr-wallet-connect) and WebLN support, and a [Blossom](/topics/blossom) client for media. A set of cache adapters (in-memory LRU, IndexedDB via Dexie, SQLite, SQLite WASM, Redis, and an experimental nostr-relay-as-cache) lets the same code run anywhere from a browser tab to a server-side process. Outbox-model relay selection ([NIP-65](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/65.md)) is built into the core and used to drive subscription routing.

Reviewer: Could be helpful to have a WoT topic page?

Author: Yes. Add to https://github.com/OpenSats/content/issues/64

## Why fund it?

> NDK is one of the most widely used TypeScript libraries for building nostr clients. Production apps such as [Highlighter](https://highlighter.com/), [Lume](https://lume.nu/), and [Flockstr](https://www.flockstr.com/) ship on top of it. By moving the hard parts (relay management, signing adapters, the outbox model, caching, NIP-46 remote signing, zaps, gift-wrapped DMs) into one library, NDK lets app developers focus on their UI and product instead of reimplementing protocol plumbing each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NDK is one of the most widely used TypeScript libraries for building nostr clients. Production apps such as [Highlighter](https://highlighter.com/), [Lume](https://lume.nu/), and [Flockstr](https://www.flockstr.com/) are built on top of it. By moving the hard parts (relay management, signing adapters, the outbox model, caching, NIP-46 remote signing, zaps, gift-wrapped DMs) into one library, NDK lets app developers focus on their UI and product instead of reimplementing protocol plumbing each time.
```
